REPORT — M19.5 analyser half: choose and open a playground template
Date: 2026-08-30
Brief: docs/handoff/handoff_30_aug_2026_1.txt
Implementation: analyser main @ 9d38cc4
Playground contract consumed: fluxtion-web @ 994e82a, deployed

STATUS: IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETE; OPEN FOR INDEPENDENT REVIEW.
The tracker stays ◧ until that review accepts the work. No other repository was changed.

OUTCOME
-------
File ▸ New project from template… now removes the browser and manual-unzip hops. It reads the
playground's live catalogue, presents the catalogue-owned onboarding subset, loads identity defaults
from the selected template, downloads a generated zip, installs it at a user-approved destination and
opens its analyser profile. A template without a profile is handed to the existing day-two discovery
path rather than gaining a second import implementation.

D-3 IS RESOLVED NO FOR THIS SLICE. The analyser never runs downloaded code. The final dialog shows and
copies fixed analyser-owned commands selected only by recognised root filenames. It never reads a
command from the archive. This preserves the existing runbook/pointer trust boundary.

IMPLEMENTATION BY BRIEF ELEMENT
-------------------------------
4. Catalogue client
   - TemplateClient pins https://fluxtion-playground.dev, disables redirects and bounds every response.
   - TemplateCatalogue accepts only catalogue 1 and names the analyser version in an incompatibility.
   - The onboarding set comes from tags, with the specified Mongoose and show-all degradations.
   - keyNeed is consumed literally. "none" is rendered; absence is silent. mode is never used to infer
     a key requirement.
   - Identity defaults are read from the catalogue-owned .starter.json, not duplicated in Swing code.

5. Hardened archive
   - Refuses parent traversal, Unix/Windows absolute paths, duplicate normalised paths, excess entries,
     per-entry and total expansion, multiple roots, links/non-directories and populated destinations.
   - Writes with CREATE_NEW into a sibling staging directory and requires ATOMIC_MOVE. There is no
     non-atomic success fallback and no merge/overwrite path.
   - Ignores archive mode bits. Only root mvnw, run-server.sh, export-audit.sh, stop-server.sh and
     check-fluxtion-key.sh receive POSIX execute bits. The hostile fixture marks evil.sh executable in
     the zip central directory and proves the installed file is not executable.

6. Swing
   - Catalogue, defaults, download and extraction run through Background, off the EDT.
   - Each operation has a modeless progress dialog and Cancel; HTTP interruption and archive-loop
     interruption fail through the same cleanup boundary.
   - An unreachable catalogue produces a human error with the manual playground route.
   - The analyser-tagged catalogue entry is selected initially; this is a catalogue fact, not a
     hard-coded template id.

7. Existing project path
   - A bundled .analyser/project.fluxtion-settings opens through ProjectSession.
   - A pre-M19 template reuses NewProjectDiscovery/NewProjectOfferDialog.

8. Commands, no execution
   - The ready dialog shows cd plus recognised wrapper commands and offers Copy commands.
   - No ProcessBuilder, Runtime.exec or archive-sourced command text exists in the template path.

9. Bench, docs and capture
   - tools/bench/template-bench.py always runs the hostile local boundary; --live adds the deployed
     catalogue/scaffold/profile leg.
   - projects.md documents the flow and trust boundary. projects-file-menu.png and
     template-picker.png were regenerated from the real jar and visually inspected.

EVIDENCE RUN
------------
  mvn -q test                                      PASS, 1129 tests, zero failures/errors
  /private/tmp/m19-docs-venv/bin/mkdocs build --strict
                                                    PASS
  python3 -m py_compile tools/capture-docs.py tools/bench/template-bench.py
                                                    PASS
  tools/bench/template-bench.py                    PASS
  tools/bench/template-bench.py --live             PASS, live leg 6 passed / 0 failed
  python3 tools/capture-docs.py --template-picker  PASS, native 25 KB capture
  python3 tools/capture-docs.py --projects-menu    PASS, native 599 KB capture
  git diff --check                                 PASS before report commit

WHAT THE REVIEWER MUST STILL CHECK
----------------------------------
1. Attack TemplateArchive independently, especially the exact root executable allowlist, the
   pre-existing-empty-directory path and cleanup after a failed atomic install. Do not accept the
   report's security summary as evidence.
2. Run tools/bench/template-bench.py --live against production and inspect the generated project's
   profile/runbook resolution rather than stopping at a 200 or PK header.
3. Click the Swing flow: cancel each of catalogue/default/download, exercise the unreachable-catalogue
   message, and confirm the app remains responsive. Headless tests source-pin this seam but cannot prove
   the native dialogs.
4. Confirm D-3 structurally: no downloaded script or profile/runbook string can reach an execution
   primitive. Challenge the fixed command list separately from the archive's executable-bit allowlist.
5. Read both regenerated screenshots. Confirm the picker shows the catalogue's keyNeed "none" on the
   AOT analyser bundle and does not claim that regeneration is keyless.

DO NOT ARCHIVE YET
------------------
This report, its brief and M19.5 remain live until the independent verdict is accepted. At that point
move the completed work under docs/handoff/completed/ according to the handoff protocol and mark M19.5
☑ in the tracker.
