REVIEW — fix/m21-execution-vs-logging
Date: 2026-08-16 · Reviewer: main session · Branch tip reviewed: bd336e7 · Base: main @ 8e9b6ca

VERDICT: approved. Merge is a clean fast-forward (branch bases on main's exact tip). Not merged here,
per standing instruction — but merge SOON: main currently ships the superseded user guide, screenshot
and invented fixture this branch corrects, so main is wrong in public until this lands.

INDEPENDENTLY VERIFIED:
  mvn -o test ..................... 322/322 green
  mkdocs build --strict ........... green
  fixture regeneration ............ byte-identical (0 diffs) — the pinned-clock reproducibility
                                    claim holds; the fixtures are now evidence, not illustration
  build isolation ................. examples/fixture-generator is NOT a module of the analyser pom;
                                    FlatLaf remains the only runtime dependency
  anonymisation ................... clean (com.acme.demo throughout)
  semantics core .................. ProcessorTopology.Execution five-state model reads exactly as
                                    reported; RAN_SILENTLY claimed only via only-route-in reasoning;
                                    DID_NOT_RUN only under a traced record; W4's only-parent rule
                                    documented with its rationale in place

STILL HUMAN: the §6 two-log contrast check (same graph, INFO vs TRACE, spreadCalculator dashed vs
present) — one eyeball on the Topology tab. This is the branch's thesis made visible; worth the click.

ANSWERS TO §4:
  Q1 (ProcessorDescriptor.sourceFingerprint/graphmlResource) — ENDORSED, file the upstream ask. It
      replaces the instanceId heuristic with exact build pairing, and it is ALSO the natural carrier
      for the provenance/tier stamp the commercial story needs — one upstream change serving two
      roadmaps. Raise it with both hats on.
  Q2 (link, don't inline, the authoring canon) — AGREED as shipped. 30KB of authoring guidance in an
      analysis prompt invites answering the wrong question; M12.4's fix brief is where the full rules
      belong. No change.
  Q3 (traced-regime marker in the record header) — ENDORSED as the second upstream ask, and note it is
      the first concrete field of the versioned record-model contract already discussed (the record IR):
      the writer knows the regime; the reader should not have to infer it from shape.
  Q4 (branch size) — ACCEPTED AS ONE UNIT. The dependency chain is real (the fixtures exist because
      the semantics changed) and the commit narrative carries a 12-commit review comfortably. Do not
      split.

ON §2 — keep doing exactly this. Five of six defects found by owner review or by running real
artefacts, none by the test suite: that is the honest shape of semantic bugs — a model of an external
system's MEANING cannot be falsified from inside the model. The countermeasure this branch built
(fixtures emitted by the real toolchain, regenerable, byte-stable) is the right one and is now
institutional via examples/fixture-generator and the ONBOARDING semantics section. The two published
retractions are worth more than the fixes: they are what make the rest of the report trustworthy.

FOLLOW-UPS:
  F1. Merge to main promptly (see verdict) and re-run the human contrast check post-merge.
  F2. File the two upstream asks (Q1, Q3) where the compiler/mongoose team will see them.
  F3. handoff/15_aug_2026_2 (M20) is two sessions stale on its "current work" framing — refresh its
      orient list before any session picks it up (M21 + this branch changed MainFrame and the specs
      it references).
